The files in this directory are the corpora used in this study.

* The BR corpus

The files starting with 'br-' are the BR corpus. The original data is
downloaded from Sharon Goldwater's web site. For proper use of
this corpus see README.Goldwater. The files br-text.txt and
br-phono.txt are the source files. The other files include
additions/modifications described below.

br-ipa.txt      is the version of br-phono.txt that is converted to
                IPA. The conversion is done based on the CMU
                pronunciation dictionary. Few words that were not
                found in the dictionary were transcribed manually.
                Both manual and dictionary-based phonemic
                transcriptions of the words found in the BR corpus
                can be found in 'br-dict.cmu', which contains original
                ARPABET symbols, which, in turn, converted to IPA
                based on Wikipedia descriptions, the mapping can be
                found in 'ipa-arpabet.txt' and the actual script that is
                used for the conversion is 'arpabet-to-ipa.sed'. The
                converted transcripts form the fourth column of the
                'br-dict.txt' (see below). The conversion from
                br-text.txt to br-ipa.txt is done through the python
                script 'br-to-ipa.py' (which simply relaces every
                occurence of a word by corresponding IPA version from
                br-dict.txt)
        
br-dict.txt     is a modified version of the file documenting the mapping 
                between the orthographic forms and phonemic forms of
                all words in the corpus. The file is a six-column 
                tab-separated file. The columns are:
                    1. The orthographic form of the word as found in
                       the original transcriptions.
                    2. The phonemic transcription used by Brent.
                    3. IPA transcription, obtained as described above.
                    4. The phonemic transcriptions in column 2 with
                       morpheme boundaries. 
                    5. IPA transcriptions with morpheme boundaries.
                    6. Frequency of the word in the corpus
                The morpheme boundaries are marked either with a '+'
                (compounds and contractions like aren't) or a '-'
                (boundaries between the root and the affixes).

br-ipa.syllabified      contains syllabified version of the br-ipa.txt.
                        Syllabification is done word by word using the
                        script syllabify.py which is a version of 
                        <https://github.com/kylebgorman/syllabify>
                        modified for IPA input.

br-ipa.u-syllabified    is another syllabified version of br-ipa.txt,
                        where  word boundaries are ignored.  Hence,
                        syllables may straddle word boundaries.


br-ipa.words.syl
br-ipa.words.usyl
br-ipa.morphs.syl
br-ipa.morphs.usyl  These files are the final input files for
                    segmentation. The first field after the dot `.'
                    in the file name indicates whether the
                    gold-standard segmentation is based on words or
                    morphemes, and the last field indicates whether
                    the syllabification is done word-by-word or
                    utterance-by-utterance. The first of these files
                    are identical to the br-ipa.syllabified explained
                    above.

---- 
tr-text.txt     Turkish child-directed corpus from the CHILDES
                database. This contains all child-directed utterances
                from the Aksu corpus. We exclude the file 2haf.cha
                which seems to be a different transcription of the
                same recording session in 2ha.cha.  Following Brent,
                onomatopoeia and interjections are removed. Similarly,
                every word is transcribed the same way at each
                occurrence.  Currently we do not employ any
                phonetic/phonemic transcription, and rely on the fact
                that Turkish orthography is rather transparent with
                respect to the standard pronunciation. We may switch
                to IPA transcriptions in the future.  The script
                'tr-cds-extract.py' used to process the CHAT files to
                produce this file.

tr-dict.txt     Similar to br-dict.txt, but only two columns. The
                first column lists the orthographic form, the second
                column lists the morphological segmentation.

tr-text.u-syllabified   similar to br-ipa.u-syllabified, this is a
                        syllabified version of tr-text.txt, where
                        word boundaries are ignored. Hence, syllables
                        may straddle word boundaries.


tr-text.words.syl
tr-text.words.usyl
tr-text.morphs.syl
tr-text.morphs.usyl     These files are the final input files for
                        segmentation for Turkish data. Similar to br-
                        versions of the files, the first field after the dot `.'
                        in the file name indicates whether the
                        gold-standard segmentation is based on words or
                        morphemes, and the last field indicates whether
                        the syllabification is done word-by-word or
                        utterance-by-utterance. 
