This directory contains some corpora used together with this
application.

* BR Corpus

The files 

    br-dict.txt 
    br-phono.txt 
    br-text.txt 

are the original files used by Brent (1999) and many subsequent
studies. Downloaded from Sharon Goldwater's web page (accessed
2008-06-06). See README.Goldwater for descriptions and terms of 
use of these files.

There are two slightly modified forms in this br-dict.txt  and
br-phono.txt files:

    br-dict-modified.txt
    br-phono-modified.txt

The first one just reorders the file for ease of some operations in
this project. The second one changes a few segmentations to make
phonological and the text versions align perfectly. The wrong
alignment resulted from inconsistent segmentation of the word
`anymore', and some of letters in the alphabet.

The files

    br-phono-modified.txt.stress
    br-phono-modified.txt.stress2

replace each phoneme in br-phono-modified.txt, with a digit
representing the lexical stress on the relevant syllable. The primary
source of information is the MRC Psycholinguistic Database. A few
words that were not found in the MRC database is annotated manually.
The first one follows the MRC database, coding single-syllable words
as unstressed.  The second file follows Christiansen, Allen and
Seidenberg (1998), and codes single-syllable words as having primary
stress.


* A larger child-directed corpus extracted from CHILDES


The data was extracted from American English section of CHIlDES. All
CDS from recordings (as of April 2011) where the target child was
younger than a year was extracted, and transcribed phonemically
following BR corpus. The relavant files are:

childes-1.phono     phonologically transcribed utterances (using filter2.py)
childes-1.txt       corresponding orthographic transcriptions
br-dict2.txt        a slightly modified version of br-dict.txt used for phonemic transcription

childes-filter.sh   The filter expression used on CHILDES .cha files.
filter2.py          The script that produces the phonemic transcriptions.
